Yeah the only way I have ever been able to structure it is with my formidable forms online pretty much just building the form linearly and adding conditional logic to the fields as I go.  even those had a few cases I could not get the logic right for some things. The mental model really works best when working with one variant at a time since each model has unique pricing, wheel options, trim level equipment nuances, different performance options, Interior variances, different standard equipment, and even some options with the same rpo are different prices between models. So here is kind of a brief walkthrough just from memory as how it is to go through the form..  Start with the variant selection, Lets pick Stingray.  then bodystyle- coupe or convertible. The bodystyle determines which roof panel options to present, engine appearance options, and some accessories. Next trim level- 1,2 or 3LT. The trim level selection has a ton of conditions tied to it. The main factor tied to trim level is interior options. There are a small handfull of options outside of interior as well, for example, E60 front lift is not available with 1LT. But the interior logic holds so much content that it is crazy. 1LT has standard seat AQ9 which is available in Black red or gray. Optionally, AE4 competition seat is available for 1095 only with black color and adds n26 suede steering wheel for 695 required. UQT is also available in 1LT. 2LT has a host of additional included equipment, and is available with AQ9 seat standard, AH2 seat for 1695 or AE4 seat for 1995. 2LT has four colors available, adding natural. AH2 and AE4 seats have suede seat inserts available which also and always adds the suede wrapped steering wheel charge. When red is selected in the AH2 seat and suede, then the two tone option charge is added automatically. AH2 seats can optionally add two tone for any seat color except black. AE4 seats can add the suede interiors but can not add two tone seats (TU7). In addition to interior colors, 2LT also makes available the stealth interior trim and carbon fiber interior trim. Both can be added to any 2LT or 3LT interior. 3LT has the most color options by far. 1LT has 4, 2LT has about 40, and 3LT has at least 70. Then exterior color has a bunch of interior color conflicts and performance packages that are pretty straight forward on Stingray but get really complex in otehr variants. Then there are also model specific wheels. Some models share a few carbon fiber wheels but mainly they are unique to each model. Brake caliper colors have conditions as well. Stingray does not have all the color options the others do because Orange requires carbon ceramic brakes not available on stingray and bronze is only available on ZR1. Spoilers have conditions like the z51 spoiler (t0a) is only available with z51 package. low profile spoiler is available without prerequisite and if added with Z51 is no charge. New center mounted exhaust option WUB moves the exhaust from behind the rear wheels to a center grouping and is required to order chrome exhaust tips, otherwise they are black with or without the center mount pipes. Then stripes have some exterior color conflicts as well. So because they keep adding more and more models, I have been wanting and trying to centralize the whole thing so I don't have to maintain up to 6 forms or datasets. The compatibility of a lot of options is luckily consistent across models for the most part so that helps, and the model exclusive items help too. The issue with multiple models is that part where an option is priced one way for model 1, another way for model 2 and standard on model 3.
